---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/aga/iucn-categorizacion/ejemplos-otras-especies/","noteIcon":""}
---

[[AGA/IUCN categorizacion/_Index categorizacion\|_Index categorizacion]]


# otras spp mayo 2024
## [slender horned gazelle ](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/species/8972/50186909#assessment-information)
 C2a(i)
> no justifican decline


listed as Endangered because the total population of Slender-horned Gazelle is estimated at no more than a few hundred individuals, well below the threshold of 2,500 mature individuals and is continuing to decline. The species is found in only a few areas of its original range and in highly fragmented and isolated populations, all of them containing below 250 mature individuals. It is suspected that poaching may have pushed the species below the Critically Endangered threshold, but field data to support this are extremely limited.

### population
Numbers have long been declining due to uncontrolled hunting (Mallon and Kingswood 2001, Devillers _et al._ 2005). The size of the current population in Egypt is unknown, but is described as very small (El Alqamy and Baha El Din 2006). The two known populations in Algeria and Tunisia are also estimated to be very small (Wacher 2006). The few recent field surveys in both countries report only small groups or just tracks. It is highly unlikely that the remaining population numbers more than a few hundred.

### biblio
parece que no se sabe mucho, todo dice probable

## [marsh deer]([**Vulnerable**](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/search?redListCategory=vu&searchType=species) A4cde)
Vulnerable A4cde
 > no justifican mucho pero como es A zafan 

This species is confirmed to be Vulnerable due to an ongoing decline suspected in the past and in the future based on direct and indirect threats. Based on rates of current decline, and considering a time period of three generations (15 years), including both past (10 years) and future (five years), this species have declined by more than 30%. Despite the lack of evidence of decline in the Pantanal population (Mourão _et al_. 2000, Rodrigues _et al_. 2005), the species may be considered to be declining throughout its geographic distribution. Although no data on demography are available for other populations, it is realistic to expect an overall decline due to poaching, habitat loss and disease. Habitat loss due to hydroelectric dams has been documented, but wetland drainage for agricultural purposes is also important in the floodplains of many rivers (Andriolo _et al._ 2013). Flooding by large reservoirs completely eliminates the best Marsh Deer habitats and isolates populations. Additionally, the retention of water by these dams causes deep changes in the flooding regime of wetlands downstream, which may cause disruption in the aquatic-plant communities, consequently reducing the carrying capacity of these habitats for Marsh Deer (Tomas _et al_. 1997, Tomas and Salis 2000). Drainage of the wetlands and its conversion into agricultural landscapes, also reduces its carrying capacity for the species. The main direct effects of habitat loss have been the fragmentation and isolation of Marsh Deer populations (Tomas _et al_. 1997), which may lead to demographic and genetic consequences. In Uruguay the species is thought to be extinct: the last record from this country was in 1958 (Ximenez _et al_. 1972).

### population
The species is declining throughout much of its range (Nowak and Paradiso 1983) although recent surveys in Brazil have revealed higher populations than had been previously recorded (Mauro 1995). Information gathered at a PHVA workshop indicates that approximately 41,000 Marsh Deer still survive in Brazil (Pinder 1996). In Argentina, population estimates are around 2,000 animals in Iberá marshes, other important populations are known from Formosa and the Paraná River Delta (Varela ____et al.____ 2001). In Bolivia, several populations are known from the Beni savannas and Noel Kempff National Park, and a recent population survey in Pampas Heath estimates 700 deer in the north of Madidi National Park (Gomez and Ríos-Uzeda 2004).  
  
The principal population in Paraguay is in the Yacyretá region where density is low. Most populations in Paraguay were reported to be declining in the 1970s (Jungius 1974, 1976). In Peru the species occurred in small numbers in Pampas del Heath (Hofmann ____et al.____ 1976, Montanbault 2002, Escamilo pers. comm.). The last record of the species in Uruguay dates back to 1958 (Ximenez ____et al.____ 1972, González 1994).

## [snow leopard ](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/species/22732/50664030)
Vulnerable C1
 > decline proyectado de caza

decline: A decline of at least 10% over the next 3 generations (22.62 years) is estimated given the growing threat related to increasing livestock numbers in some countries or emerging threats like intensified road construction and mineral extraction. Although poaching appears to have declined since the late 1990s, Nowell _____et al._____ (2016) estimated that 221-450 Snow Leopards were poached annually since 2008 (based on extrapolation of cases known to over 40 surveyed experts); these were attributed to retaliation for actual or perceived livestock depredation, but this supposition is not substantiated by hard evidence. With the average rate of poaching detection estimated by experts at less than 38%, these numbers could be substantially higher. If these poaching estimates are anywhere near accurate, this suggests that roughly 2-10% of the population could be poached annually. While a direct relationship between offtake and a population decline is not clear, even at the magnitude reported by Nowell _____et al._____ 2016, it adds to the plausibility of a 10% decline over 3 generations (22.62 years).

## [dhole](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/species/5953/72477893#assessment-information)
Endangered C2a(i)
 >no justifican derecimiento poblacional

justification
Dholes have disappeared from most of their historical range. Populations are still declining in most areas due to several main threats which include depletion of prey base, habitat loss, persecution due to livestock predation, disease transmission from domestic dogs, and possibly interspecific competition. Although there is uncertainty in our estimation, we calculate a total population of 4,500-10,500 individuals, of which only 949-2,215 are mature individuals. Most if not all current subpopulations of Dholes are relatively small and isolated, and often exhibit severe fluctuations in numbers. One of the largest remaining subpopulations of dholes was estimated to contain 207-304 individuals, of which only 44-64 were mature individuals. Therefore, Dholes warrant listing as Endangered under criterion C2a(i).-

## [wild dog](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/species/12436/166502262#assessment-information)
Endangered C2a(i)
 > en la seccion population si justifican decline

African Wild Dogs have disappeared from much of their former range. Their population is currently estimated at approximately 6,600 adults in 39 subpopulations, of which only 1,400 are mature individuals. Population size is continuing to decline as a result of ongoing habitat fragmentation, conflict with human activities, and infectious disease. Given uncertainty surrounding population estimates, and the species’ tendency to population fluctuations, the largest subpopulations might well number <250 mature individuals, thereby warranting listing as Endangered under criterion C2a(i).



## [ Borneo bay cat](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/species/4037/112910221#assessment-information)
Endangered C1
 > dicen que estiman decline aunque es suspected...
 
JUSTIFICATION
The Borneo Bay Cat, a Bornean endemic, remains one of the least known and infrequently recorded of the world’s wild cats, hindering efforts to assess its conservation needs and status. Historical records, incidental observations, and more recently, camera trap photographic captures and a niche modelling exercise (Hearn et al. submitted) indicate that this elusive felid appears restricted to natural and semi-natural forest cover but, within such habitat, exhibits some degree of habitat plasticity. Importantly, however, the extensive areas of swamp forest and oil palm plantations on Borneo do not appear to be used by this felid. A Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) based habitat suitability analysis, using presence-only data coupled with expert opinion, estimated that the Bay Cat’s current area of occupancy (AOO) extends to approximately 221,000 km2 (Borneo Carnivore Symposium 2011, Hearn et al. submitted). Due to a lack of sufficient data, this analysis was unable to account for the potential impacts of differential hunting pressure on population density throughout this range. Hunting could plausibly be having a considerable impact on the species and our distribution estimate may, therefore, represent an optimistic estimation of the current AOO. A GIS exercise as part of the current assessment used the habitat suitability assessment alongside landcover data for Borneo for the years 2000 and 2010 (Miettinen et al. 2010) and showed that the estimated AOO decreased by 29.8% during this time period, primarily as a result of forest loss and conversion to oil palm. More recent satellite imagery shows that forest loss has continued to reduce the AOO in size (Gaveau et al. 2014), and it is likely that forest loss continues to this day, albeit at a reduced rate. In addition, some protected areas in Borneo are small, fragmented and isolated making them vulnerable to climate change and ineffective in conserving low-density species such as the bay cat (Scriven et al. 2015). Because the species spends time on the ground, Bay Cats are prone to untargeted snaring and there is increasing evidence for the capture and export of Bay Cats for the illegal pet market. We estimate that the cumulative reduction in the population size as a consequence of degradation, poaching amounts and forest conversion, to between 20-30% in the past 12 years (two Bay Cat generations, Pacifici et al. 2013).

No population density estimates exist for this felid. Nevertheless, the paucity of Bay Cat specimens collected during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries caused earlier authors to conclude that the species is naturally rare, a stance further bolstered by recent camera survey efforts. Indeed, photographic capture rates of the Bay Cat are substantially lower than that of the sympatric Sunda Clouded Leopard (Neofelis diardi), which is estimated to exist at low densities (1-4 individuals 100 km2: Brodie and Giordano 2012a, Wilting et al. 2012, Sollmann et al. 2014, Loken et al. unpublished data) leading some authors to hypothesize that the Bay Cat is found at even lower densities (Azlan and Sanderson 2007, Mohamed et al. 2009, Ross et al. 2010, but see Wearn et al. 2013). Acknowledging that our estimate of current AOO may be biased high as a result of unmeasured hunting pressure and a patchy distribution, we take a precautionary approach and estimate that the mean density of the Bay Cat across the AOO may be as low as one individual per 100 km2. Extrapolation of this estimate to the wider AOO suggests that the number of mature individuals could plausibly be fewer than 2,500 individuals indicating, in combination with the estimated past decline rate (>30% in the past 12 years), a categorization of Endangered under EN C1.

## [Flat-headed Cat](https://www.iucnredlist.org/es/species/18148/50662095)
Endangered C1
 > tambien justifican sospechando, con habitat (cuantitativo) y caza (solo mencioando)

JUSTIFICATION
The Flat-headed Cat has a restricted and patchy distribution around wetlands in lowland forest on the islands of Sumatra, Borneo and the Malayan Peninsula. It was formerly also distributed in southern Thailand but the last confirmed observation was almost 20 years ago (Wilting _et al_. 2010). Current status distribution is limited to presence data, and there are few records in comparison with sympatric small felids. The extent to which this reflects patterns of survey design and effort rather than patterns of distribution is unclear. Wetland destruction and degradation and the very high deforestation rate in southeast Asia is the primary threat faced by the species (Wilting _et al_. 2010). Since 2010 there have been few new photo captures of this species with camera traps. The reason for this can be due to the special wetland-based ecology of the species, but as they have been previously photographed on main roads, as well as in the forest and along trails, it is believed unlikely to be the sole reason. It was photographed only a few times in the Kinabatangan area of Sabah, of Borneo (an area thought to have the best habitat for the species), despite hundreds of camera traps (A. Hearn pers. comm. 2014).  
  
Over 45% of protected wetlands and 94% of globally significant wetlands in Southeast Asia are considered threatened (Dugan 1993) and although the situation today is unknown, it is unlikely to be radically better and may be much worse. Causes include human settlement, draining for agriculture, pollution, and excessive hunting, wood-cutting and fishing. In addition, clearance of coastal mangroves over the past decade has been rapid. While there have been observations of the Flat-headed Cat in secondary forests (Bezuijen 2000, Meijaard _et al_. 2005, Mohamed _et al_. 2009), Wilting _et al_. (2010) could not find any support that the Flat-headed Cat can also live in oil palm plantations. According to their distribution model, over 70% of its predicted historical suitable habitat has been transformed to unsuitable habitats (Wilting _et al._ 2010). Between 2000-2010 the Flat-headed Cat lost over 20% of potentially suitable habitat (10% in Peninsular Malaysia, 17% in Borneo and 41% in Sumatra; extracted from Miettinen _et al_. 2011). Based on these rates of habitat loss and together with other threats such as pollution of wetlands and hunting it is very likely that the Flat-headed Cat population declined by at least 20% in the last 12 years (two generations; Pacifici _et al_. 2013) and will also continue to decline over the next 12 years by more than 20%.  
  
It is difficult to estimate population size given its patchy distribution and lack of any density estimates. However the low number of camera-trapping records and direct sightings compared to other Southeast Asian cat species seem to support the notion that the Flat-headed Cat is very rare and/or very specialized in its habitat requirements. An area of occupancy map predicted a species distribution area of about 61,000 km² for Borneo (Wilting _et al_. unpublished data of the Borneo Carnivore Symposium). For Peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra we inferred that additional 10,000 km² and 8,100 km², respectively, could be occupied. If we take a density of four individuals per 100 km² within this 80,000 km², and assuming that not all individuals of a population are mature individuals we would infer a population size which is plausibly fewer than 2,500 mature individuals. For the Flat-headed Cat with its very patchy distribution and its close associations to water resources the average density of four individuals per 100 km² is rather conservative, although in some well suitable areas the density might also be much higher than this. Using a higher average density (>5 mature individulas per 100 km²) would lead to population estimates which would qualify the species as Vulnerable (C1). The IUCN Red List Guidelines (vers. 11, Feb 2014) caution that multiplying density times area extent often leads to “gross overestimation” of the number of mature individuals. Although density estimations of Flat-headed Cats would be needed to verify the inferred numbers, the great threat to Southeast Asian wetlands further supports the classification as Endangered under the precautionary principle.